---
layout: post
title: The First Week of Machine Learning
subtitle: The worst week
gh-repo: 1aaronscott
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [blog]
comments: true
---
In comparing my blog entries with other students, I see mine are far
less about code snippets and the homework assignments and generally
less technical. Unfortunately, I think today will be another blog
about my experiences and the surrounding thoughts and feelings. I'm
not sure if this is good or bad. Perhaps I just need to do more of a
mix.

Last week was the first week (sprint) of unit four "Machine Learning."
The topic covered was natural language processing or NLP. It was by
far the hardest week yet. I gave the most serious consideration to
abandoning the quest to be a data scientist. It activated my latent
depression issues which is understandable considering what my
alternative path would be.

The problems started Monday when we had to cut the careers lesson
short due to the extra time needed to install and set up the necessary
environment. We had to install a file which was 850 megabytes
large. Problem is pip downloads and unpacks the file to /tmp. How big
is /tmp on my computer? 1.6 gigabytes. Needless to say the install
failed and it took me some time to figure out why. My problem solving
OCD serves me well in some cases but this time it meant focusing on
getting this installed rather than paying attention to lecture. And
the week was downhill from there.

There were other issues such as a bug in my logic that I was unable to
resolve and eventually had to seek help for. I've come to realize that
I may not have the mental tools in place to adequately deal with
adversity correctly. Namely I can become too flustered too easily for
too long on tasks which I feel I should not have problems
with. Despite my successes and accomplishments in the past each new
trouble seems far larger than it is or should be. Their is occasional
talk about "impostor syndrome" in the slack channels or lecture. What
never gets mentioned is stereotype threat. It's a related issue but
something most at Lambda School don't have to deal with. I suspect
both of these mental flaws or weaknesses are plaguing me in the back
of my mind. "Will this be the problem that exposes and breaks me?" I
clearly need better coping strategies. I've tried pausing and trying
to think of past similar situations when I succeeded. Positive
self-talk the call it. But it seems old habits die hard. Maybe making
a concrete list of past successes (I tend to remember bad more than
good) would help.
